# Logging in and cookies

## Login

There are two ways of login in. The first way, and the way that must be completed first, is with a username and password combo. When sending the following (where this particular user is called `Username` and the password for that user is `Password`), you will receive a `login_success` message, if successful and a `login_fail`, if unsuccessful.

SENT: 

```json
{"msg": "login", "username": "Username", "password": "Password"}
```

RECEIVED (if successful): 

```json
{"username": "Username", "admin": False, "msg": "login_success"}
```

RECEIVED (if failed): 
```json
{"msg": "login_fail"}
```


The second way, is to log in with a [cookie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_cookie). Once you log on successfully with credentials, you can request a cookie from DCSS webtile in the following way: 

```json
SENT: 
    {'msg': 'set_login_cookie'}
RECEIVED: 
    {'cookie': 'Username%20123075677009872810135587785129954954508', 'expires': 7, 'msg': 'login_cookie'}
```

Once you have a cookie, you can send it back to log on the next time (you will receive a login_success). A new login cookie must be requested every time you use the cookie.

```json
SENT: 
    {'msg': 'token_login', 'cookie': 'Username%20123075677009872810135587785129954954508'}
RECEIVED (if good cookie): 
    {'username': 'Username', 'admin': False, 'msg': 'login_success'}
RECEIVED (if bad cookie):
    {'msg': 'login_fail'}
```

## Starting a game

Once you are logged on, you will received various html messages, such as the banner. The important one is the `set_game_links` message. In this message, you will receive the `game_id`. In the `content` of that message, you will find game_ids, such as `#play-dcss-web-trunk` and `#play-seeded-web-trunk` as html. If the `#play-` portion is removed, this can be sent back to DCSS webtile to start the game. 

```json
SENT: 
    {'msg': 'play', 'game_id': 'seeded-web-trunk'}
RECEIVED (if good game_id): 
    {'msg': 'game_started'}
RECEIVED (if bad game_id):
    {'msg': 'go_lobby'}
```

Once the game is started, it will send various data such as `player` information, `ui` messages, `msgs` from the log and `map` data and the game will accept any of the standard keyboard inputs.